# pandas-challenge-1
# E-Commerce Data Analysis Challenge

## Overview
This project involves a comprehensive analysis of a fictional e-commerce company's dataset using Python's Pandas library. The focus was on exploring, transforming, confirming, and summarizing the dataset to extract meaningful business insights.

## Objectives

### Explore the Data
- Displayed the dataset's column names to understand its structure.
- Applied the `describe()` function for basic statistics.
- Identified 'consumables' as the top category and 'bathroom supplies' as the top subcategory.
- Analyzed and listed the top five clients, with a focus on the client with the most orders.

### Transform the Data
- Created columns for the subtotal, shipping price, total price, cost, and profit.

### Confirm Your Work
- Confirmed that calculated totals for specific order IDs matched the provided receipts.

### Summarize and Analyze
- Calculated and analyzed the total revenue generated by the top five clients.
- Created a summary DataFrame with key financial figures.
- Formatted the data for presentation, focusing on currency representation.
- Provided a detailed summary of the findings, emphasizing strategic insights.

## Installation and Usage

To run this project, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**: 
git clone [https://github.com/juanlavieri/pandas-challenge-1.git]


2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**:
cd [Your/Project/Directory/Name]


3. **Install Required Libraries** (if not already installed):
pip install pandas


4. **Run the Jupyter Notebook**:
- Open the notebook in a Jupyter environment.
- Execute the cells in order to see the analysis and results.

## Conclusion
This challenge showcased the practical application of Pandas in data analysis, emphasizing manipulation, analysis, and visualization skills. The insights derived are aimed at enhancing marketing strategies and optimizing inventory management.

## References and Acknowledgements
- Any code not originally authored by me is referenced within the notebook.
- This project was completed as part of SMU AI Bootcamp, and I thank David and Kenneth for their guidance and support.

## Additional Notes
- The code adheres to best practices in data analysis and Python programming.
- Comments and documentation within the Jupyter notebook are provided for clarity.